>> Steve Kinney: And so, there is
this thing called testing library,
right, which you kinda saw
hiding in that V test config.
And you can even see, if you need any
more convincing on how close these two
testing libraries are, that should tell
you everything you really need to know.
There is this library
called testing library.
So, testing library is a library that
allows us to kind of have a bunch of
helpers around working in the DOM.
We have turned on the DOM, right?
But things like querying for
various things in the DOM with an expect
helper can be a little tricky.
Some of those user events that we saw
before as well, can become tricky as well,
but this test works, but let's see if
we can make it a little bit better.
So for instance,
one thing we could do is we could
import,
>> Steve Kinney: Actually,
there's no render for this one.
>> Steve Kinney: We can import this
screen from testing library DOM.
To the question I got earlier
which inspired this little
live decision that I made,
which is, if you were just using
regular DOM nodes,
you use testing-library/dom.
If you would like to work
with React components.
>> Steve Kinney: If you would like
to work with Svelte components.
If you would like to work
with Vue components, right?
Beyond that, there is very little
difference between the bunch of them,
which we'll see momentarily.
But we'll start out with
this one right here.
So we can start out with the screen.
And so,
what screen does as effectively as you
can imagine is the browser window, right?
And one of the things that testing library
does is it's got a bunch of selectors for
finding DOM nodes, right?
If you've ever used jQuery before,
you know this like the back of your hand.
If you've used something
like document.querySelector,
you've done this as well.
The interesting part about testing library
that I think is super cool is that it
forces you to use selectors that are based
on how a screen reader would find things.
Which means,
it forces you to both write your test and
thereby your markup in a way
that is accessible, right?
And so, it allows you to kinda like
query stuff along those lines, and
allows you to have a version of
the screen that you can kinda see.
So this is less about a DOM node and
more about what is on the page,
how would a screen reader find it, and
finding the elements like that as well.
And so, what we could do here
is we could have our button and
we could do something like,
we can put it on the page.
>> Steve Kinney: So
in this case, let me just do,
I'm using replaceChild()
instead of a penChild().
So if I use an additional test, it's gonna
swap everything out with a fresh button.
Otherwise, you could end up with three
buttons on the page, because life's hard.
Button, and
now what I could say is something
like,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's actually just only
use that variable name.
>> Steve Kinney: So I could say something
like, we're gonna put that on the body,
and this is something
I might choose to do.
If I was gonna use the same
button in every test,
I could choose to put this
in a before each, right?
But in this case, I'm just gonna
put it in line with this one.
And then I could say something like,
const_button = screen getByRoll.
In this case, we want a button.
And I could say one that has,
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
what are you angry about?
>> Steve Kinney: I'll do that for now.
So we've got the button,
the nice part too is,
theoretically, this is a reasonable test.
Because if it couldn't find
a button with click me on the page,
then this test would fail, right?
So I said one with,
>> Steve Kinney: The act of find,
this is where that like thing we're
talking about before helps us,
if it can't find one on the page,
that'll throw an error.
So by definition,
this is theoretically a reasonable test.
And so at this point, we can do, or
you can even do something like
expect screen or expect button.
>> Steve Kinney: Can't remember
what I started this with.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and so, here we've
got one where it's kind of using it
from the screen reader version, right?
Where we say, hey,
put this thing on the body, right?
And then, from the perspective of
the screen, go find that button.
And then in this case,
it's in the document.
And this test is now doing effectively
the same thing, so we can get rid of it.
Where this can become more interesting
is this idea of click, right?
There's a few ways that we can
kind of improve upon this.
And we'll kinda take it slowly and
do it in a few other examples.
As you can see,
there are plenty of examples that
we have to play around with here.
So we'll get our muscle memory behind us.
But what we can do here is the same basic
idea, what I might do after every test.
>> Steve Kinney: Is just say,
>> Steve Kinney: Document.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't know if it works
for the DOM1, but for React and stuff,
it will clear out the DOM
in between every test,
I just don't remember if it does it for
this one.
So what we'll do is, we'll do
the same thing we said before here.
Now, instead of calling .click,
what we can do is pull in this,
fire an event, which will actually,
instead of calling the click method,
basically, take a a little event and
shoot it at the button, right?
And so, what we can do is,
>> Steve Kinney: GetByRoll,
in this case, Button,
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll go with the name.
>> Steve Kinney: Click here,
where is it lowercase?
Yep, and
what we can do at this point is say,
>> Steve Kinney: FireEvent at the button.
>> Steve Kinney: It's gotta be,
>> Steve Kinney: Did end
up with two on the screen.
>> Steve Kinney: The nice part is you can
see this is the DOM I'm working with,
I gotta deal with this in a second, but
I ended up with two buttons on the screen.
I'll deal with that one moment,
as I get my major point across here.
>> Steve Kinney: So we've made
this a little bit better, right?
We now fire an event at it,
which is, again,
from the perspective of the browser.
There's another library along with
testing library called user-event.
>> Steve Kinney: Which will then
do what we were saying before,
where it will simulate everything that
would go on with a user actually doing it.
And so this is just an abstraction.
It'll do, kinda the mouse enter and
the click,
it'll do all of the things that
a user would normally do to
interact with an element like this, and
simulates that a little bit better.
So in this case,
it does need to be async function because,
>> Steve Kinney: And so now,
this is basically simulating everything
that would happen in an actual user event.
The end result is the same.
Now, cuz this is a very,
very, very simple test, but
the idea here is now we are mounting it
on the page, like a real page, right?
We are querying that it is in the DOM with
the right roles, and we're getting it.
We are doing a real click,
and then we are, in fact,
verifying, we could even,
this is the same button in memory,
we could also grab it again,
and so on and so forth, right?
But again, we thought about the arrange,
act, and assert.
By arranging, we're rendering it
on the page, we will go ahead find
it on the page to make sure it was
mounted correctly as we expected.
Click on it, and then verify that thing
changed the way that we wanted it to.